Di itharollotĂ…Â¡e goba ga di sa nyakega.
They have solved themselves or are no longer required.
 They are missing out on themselves or are no longer needed.

A mafelelo a mabe gakaakang ao a tliĂ…Â¡wago ke go se " swarelele ka go tia bophelong bjo bo sa felego '! - 1 Timotheo 6: 9, 10, 12; Diema 28: 20.
What a price to pay for not keeping "a firm hold on the everlasting life "! - 1 Timothy 6: 9, 10, 12; Proverbs 28: 20.
 What bad results come from not " holding fast to everlasting life '! - 1 Timothy 6: 9, 10, 12; Proverbs 28: 20.

Dr.
Dr.
 Dr.

Molebeledi wa tikologo o bolela gore: "DingangiĂ…Â¡ano tĂ…Â¡a kgwebo - tĂ…Â¡eo ka mehla di bakwago ke ditumelelano tĂ…Â¡eo bonyenyane lehlakore le lengwe le bonago di se tĂ…Â¡a botegelwa - gantĂ…Â¡i e ba selo seo se tsebjago gohle.
A traveling overseer observes: "Business disputes - invariably caused by agreements that at least one party considers dishonored - often become public knowledge.
 A circuit overseer observes: "The business issues - which are always due to agreements that at least one side consider unfaithful - often become universal.

Ka gona go direga'ng?
What is happening then?
 So what happens?

Lekgolong la pele la mengwaga, Bakriste ba bangwe ba ile ba rekiĂ…Â¡a dilo tĂ…Â¡a bona, go swana le maĂ…Â¡emo goba dintlo, e le gore ba nee baapostola tĂ…Â¡helete yeo.
In the first century, some Christians sold items that they owned, such as fields or houses, and brought the money to the apostles.
 In the first century, some Christians sold their belongings, such as fields or houses, to give the apostles the money.

Russell o ile a tĂ…Â¡wela pele a mo ngwalela mangwalo, gomme mafelelong kgahlego ya Robert molaetĂ…Â¡eng wa Beibele e ile ya gola.
Russell kept in touch by letter, and as a result, Robert's interest in the Bible message grew.
 Russell continued writing letters to her, and Robert's interest in the Bible's message eventually grew.

TlaiĂ…Â¡o e Ă…Â¡oro e be e le sebopego se tlwaelegilego sa ntwa ya bona.
Sadistic torture was a frequent feature of their warfare.
 Inhuman persecution was a common feature of their war.

Ke ka baka la'ng re swanetĂ…Â¡e go phema go boaboeletĂ…Â¡a mantĂ…Â¡u a itĂ…Â¡ego ge re rapela?
Why should we avoid offering repetitious prayers?
 Why should we avoid repeating certain words when praying?

MOZAMBIQUE
MOZAMBIQUE
 [ Box / Picture on page 6]

SokoloĂ…Â¡a hlogo ya gago go bona seo se diregago go go dikologa, gomme o se ithekge feela ka diipone.
Turn your head to see what is happening around you, and do not rely solely on mirrors.
 Take your head off to see what is going on around you, and rely on it only on amulets.

Go oketĂ…Â¡a moo, ge re dutĂ…Â¡e re rapelela dijo tĂ…Â¡e lekanego tĂ…Â¡a nama tĂ…Â¡a letĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i le lengwe le le lengwe ka potego, re ka tlaleletĂ…Â¡a ka mo go tĂ…Â¡welago pele go seo re nago le sona bakeng sa go thekga modiro wa MmuĂ…Â¡o wa lefaseng ka bophara.
In addition, as we trustingly pray for a sufficiency of material food for each day, we can consistently contribute generously from our means in support of the worldwide Kingdom work.
 In addition, as we sincerely pray for sufficient physical food each day, we can further contribute to what we have to support the worldwide Kingdom work.

Ka ge a be a phethagetĂ…Â¡e, ga go pelaelo gore o be a le "botse. "
As a perfect man, doubtless he was "handsome. "
 Being perfect, he was no doubt "good. "

Evan o gopola ge a be a e - na le nywaga e Ă…Â¡upago a tshwenywa ke moĂ…Â¡emanyana yo mongwe ka peseng ya sekolo.
Evan remembers being taunted when he was seven by a boy on a school bus.
 Evan recalls when she was seven years old troubled by a boy on a school bus.

KA KOLOING - Ge e ba "go thopelwa koloi " e le mo go atilego lefelong la geno, o se ke wa dula ka koloing ya gago yeo e emiĂ…Â¡itĂ…Â¡wego.
IN THE CAR - If "carjacking " has become common in your area, do not remain in your parked car.
 IN TRRIFIN - If "a car - winning " is common in your area, don't sit in your stopped car.

Bo - makgolo le bo - rakgolo, batswadi ba rena le bagwera ba a hwa.
Our grandparents, parents, and friends die.
 Our grandparents, our parents, and friends die.

Ge e le gabotse, nywageng e fetago 20 ka morago ga go ba Mokriste yo a ineetĂ…Â¡ego, bjale o hlankela e le molebeledi wa mosepedi wa Dihlatse tĂ…Â¡a Jehofa.
In fact, more than 20 years after becoming a dedicated Christian, he now serves as a traveling overseer of Jehovah's Witnesses.
 In fact, over 20 years after becoming a dedicated Christian, he now serves as a traveling overseer of Jehovah's Witnesses.

Go ile gwa batamelwa ba bangwe ba bahlankedi ba mmuĂ…Â¡o kua Moscow, gomme ka 1991 Dihlatse tĂ…Â¡a Jehofa di ile tĂ…Â¡a ngwadiĂ…Â¡wa ka molao.
Some of the officials in Moscow were approached, and in 1991, Jehovah's Witnesses were granted legal registration.
 Some of the government officials were approached in Moscow, and in 1991 Jehovah's Witnesses were legally registered.

A gata mogato ka boikemiĂ…Â¡etĂ…Â¡o, Jehu o ile a kata a lebile Jeseriele go ya go thoma modiro wa gagwe wa go bolaya baetapele ba bahlanogi ba borapedi bja Baali.
Acting decisively, Jehu raced toward Jezreel to begin his work of executing the apostate ringleaders of Baal worship.
 Acting decisively, Jehu raped himself toward Jezreel to begin his work of killing apostate Baal - worship leaders.

Ke ile ka kgomarela kudu kgopolo yeo.
I latched onto that idea like you wouldn't believe.
 I held fast to that idea.

Bakeng sa tsebiĂ…Â¡o e oketĂ…Â¡egilego, bona kgaolo 3 ya puku ya, Ke Eng Seo ge e le Gabotse Beibele e se Rutago? yeo e gatiĂ…Â¡itĂ…Â¡wego ke Dihlatse tĂ…Â¡a Jehofa
For more information, see chapter 3 of this book, What Does the Bible Really Teach?, published by Jehovah's Witnesses
 For more information, see chapter 3 of this book, What Does the Bible Really Teach?, published by Jehovah's Witnesses

Sehlopha se se Alogago sa bo - 124 sa Sekolo sa Beibele sa Watchtower sa Gilead
124th Graduating Class of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead
 124th Graduating Class of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead

Ge e ba Beibele e be e le puku ya dinonwane, na o be o tla hwetĂ…Â¡a khomotĂ…Â¡o le kholofelo go tĂ…Â¡wa dikholofetĂ…Â¡ong tĂ…Â¡a yona?
If the Bible were a collection of myths, would you derive comfort and hope from its promises?
 If the Bible were a book of myths, would you find comfort and hope from its promises?

Polasitiki:
Plastic:
 PolFAki:

Ke be ke e - na le mafolofolo a moĂ…Â¡omo kudu ao a ilego a ntlwaeletĂ…Â¡a ditlhohlo tĂ…Â¡a nakong e tlago tĂ…Â¡a bophelo, tĂ…Â¡eo e bego e tla ba tĂ…Â¡e dintĂ…Â¡i.
I had a strong work ethic that trained me for the future challenges of life, which were going to be many.
 I had a lot of work that filled me with future challenges to life, which would be many.

" Tsela ya Rena ke e Kaone! '
" Our Way Is Best! '
 " Our Way Is Better! '

Eupja Beibele e re gopotĂ…Â¡a gore "bohlale byo bo tĂ…Â¡waxo xodimo... kĂƒÂ© kaxiĂ…Â¡ĂƒÂ´ le bonĂƒÂ´lĂƒÂ´. " - Jakobo 3: 17.
But the Bible reminds us that "the wisdom from above is... peaceable, reasonable. " - James 3: 17.
 But the Bible reminds us that "the wisdom from above is... peaceable and mild - tempered. " - James 3: 17.

Julian o bitĂ…Â¡wa mmuĂ…Â¡iĂ…Â¡i wa mafelelo wa moheitene wa Roma.
Julian has been called the last pagan emperor of Rome.
 Julian is called the last pagan Roman emperor.

Bakeng sa tsebiĂ…Â¡o e oketĂ…Â¡egilego, bona kgaolo 3 ya puku ye, Ke Eng Seo ge e le Gabotse Beibele e se Rutago? yeo e gatiĂ…Â¡itĂ…Â¡wego ke Dihlatse tĂ…Â¡a Jehofa.
For more information, see chapter 3 of this book, What Does the Bible Really Teach?, published by Jehovah's Witnesses.
 For more information, see chapter 3 of this book, What Does the Bible Really Teach?, published by Jehovah's Witnesses.

Mafelelong, boĂ…Â¡egong bjo bongwe ke ile ka tĂ…Â¡hollela Jehofa Modimo sa mafahleng ka thapelo gomme ka mo lopa gore a nthuĂ…Â¡e.
Finally, one night I opened my heart to Jehovah God in prayer and begged him to help me quit.
 Finally, one night I poured out my heart to Jehovah God in prayer and begged him to help me.

Ditemana 26 go ya go 35 tĂ…Â¡a Diema kgaolo 14 di araba dipotĂ…Â¡iĂ…Â¡o tĂ…Â¡e.
Verses 26 to 35 of Proverbs chapter 14 answer these questions.
 Verses 26 through 35 of Proverbs chapter 14 answer these questions.

Deborah: "Bophelo bja gago bo ka se be kaone ge e ba o lahla ditekanyetĂ…Â¡o tĂ…Â¡a Beibele.
Deborah: "Your life will not be better if you abandon Bible standards.
 Deborah: "Your life will not be better if you abandon Bible standards.

Ge nako e dutĂ…Â¡e e e - ya, ofisi ya lekala ya Dihlatse tĂ…Â¡a Jehofa ya Costa Rica e ile ya laletĂ…Â¡a bao ba bego ba ka kgona gore ba thome modiro wa boebangedi wa nako e tletĂ…Â¡ego.
In time, the Costa Rica branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses invited those who could to take up the evangelizing work full - time.
 In time, the Costa Rica branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses invited those who could begin the full - time evangelizing work.

Mohlala wa Esitere o re ruta kudu ka bokgoni bja go kgodiĂ…Â¡a.
Esther's example teaches us much about the art of persuasion.
 Esther's example teaches us a lot about convincing ability.

Modimo kĂƒÂ© Mmotexi, a ka se kĂƒÂª a lesa la lekwa ka tĂ…Â¡e di kaxo Le palĂƒÂªla; xotee le molekĂƒÂ´ ĂƒÂ³ tlo fĂƒÂªla a bea sebaka sa go tlo efoxa, xore Le kxĂƒÂ´nĂƒÂª xo kxĂƒÂ´tlĂƒÂªlĂƒÂªla. "
But God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear, but along with the temptation he will also make the way out in order for you to be able to endure it. "
 But God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear, but along with the temptation he will also make the way out in order for you to be able to endure it. "

Maemong a mangwe, kgethollo e ka dira gore maphodisa le batho ka kakaretĂ…Â¡o ba belaele batho ba morafo, bodumedi goba setĂ…Â¡haba se itĂ…Â¡ego.
In some cases, prejudice may make the police and public suspect individuals of a certain race, religion, or nationality.
 In some cases, prejudice may cause police and society in general to question people of a certain race, religion, or nationality.

Mathomong Choong Keon o be a ikwa eka go se tsebe se - China gabotse go mo dira gore a hloke mohola ka phuthegong.
Choong Keon initially felt that his limited Chinese made him of little use in the congregation.
 At first she felt as if she didn't know Chinese well made her worthless in the congregation.

Ge e ba go tĂ…Â¡welela dikgang tĂ…Â¡eo di akaretĂ…Â¡ago tlhagelelo, meletlo ya borata - naga goba tĂ…Â¡helo ya madi ka klaseng, na o " ipolela pele ga mang le mang yo a go botĂ…Â¡iĂ…Â¡ago lebaka la kholofelo ya gago '?
If issues involving evolution, patriotic ceremonies, or blood transfusion come up in class, do you "make a defense before everyone that demands of you a reason for the hope in you "?
 If issues involving evolution, wild parties, or blood transfusion arise in class, do you " make a defense before everyone that demands of you a reason for your hope '?

MatĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i a 40 ka morago, Josefa le Maria ba ile ba ya tempeleng Jerusalema yeo e bego e le kgaufsi gore ba yo neela sebego se se nyakegago sa thakgafatĂ…Â¡o.
Forty days later, Joseph and Mary visited the temple in nearby Jerusalem to present the prescribed purification offering.
 Forty days later, Joseph and Mary went to the temple in nearby Jerusalem to offer a needed grain offering.

Ge e ba boitshwaro bjo bo gobogilego o Ă…Â¡oro goba go Ă…Â¡ilafala moyeng go be go ka dumelelwa go ba gona ka phuthegong, e be e tla Ă…Â¡ilafala gomme e be e ka se ke ya swanelegela bakeng sa go neela tirelo e kgethwa go Jehofa yo e lego yo mokgethwa.
If gross immorality or spiritual uncleanness were permitted to remain in the congregation, it would become contaminated and would be unsuitable for rendering sacred service to Jehovah, who is holy.
 If gross immorality or spiritual uncleanness were allowed to exist in the congregation, it would be unclean and would not qualify to render sacred service to Jehovah, who is holy.

BontĂ…Â¡hang gore le kgahlegela bana babo lena le dikgaetĂ…Â¡edi ka gore le boele go bona ka morago ga ketelo ya pele.
You can show your genuine concern for your brothers and sisters by your ongoing interest following the visit.
 Show interest in your brothers and sisters by returning to see after your first visit.

Go thabela seo Jehofa a Ă…Â¡etĂ…Â¡ego a se direla batho ba gagwe paradeiseng ya rena ya moya gotee le go thabela seo re ka se letelago Paradeiseng ya kgonthe e lego kgaufsi.
Joy over what Jehovah is already doing for his people in our spiritual paradise, and joy over what we can expect in the literal Paradise near at hand.
 Enjoying what Jehovah already does for his people in our spiritual paradise and enjoying what we can expect in the physical Paradise nearby.

Go gwerana le Modimo ke tsela e kaone - kaone ya go lebeletĂ…Â¡ana le go lewa ke bodutu.
Forming a friendship with God is the very best way to cope with loneliness.
 Friendship with God is the best way to cope with loneliness.

Xobane ka thokĂƒÂ´ ya motho wa teng ke thabĂƒÂªla MolaĂƒÂ´ wa Modimo. Xomme mo dithong tĂ…Â¡a - ka ke bĂƒÂ´na molaĂƒÂ´ o Ă…Â¡ele [o] lwanthĂ…Â¡axo le molaĂƒÂ´ wa pelo ya - ka, wa nthopa wa mpuĂ…Â¡iĂ…Â¡a molaĂƒÂ´ wa sebe o lexo dithong tĂ…Â¡a - ka. " - Ba - Roma 7: 18 - 23.
I really delight in the law of God according to the man I am within, but I behold in my members another law warring against the law of my mind and leading me captive to sin's law that is in my members. " - Romans 7: 18 - 23.
 For I really delight in the law of God according to the man I am within, but I behold in my members another law warring against the law of my mind and leading me captive to sin's law that is in my members. " - Romans 7: 18 - 23.

Bahlankedi ba mmuĂ…Â¡o ba lefelong leo bao ba bego ba diriĂ…Â¡ana le Dihlatse ba ile ba reta bokgoni bja tĂ…Â¡ona, mekgwa e mebotse le tiriĂ…Â¡ano e botse le bahlokomedi ba lepatlelo le mafapha a mangwe a motse.
Local officials who worked with the Witnesses had nothing but praise for their efficiency, courtesy, and fine cooperation with stadium management and other city departments.
 Local government officials dealing with the Witnesses praised their skills, good manners, and good cooperation with stadium attendants and other city stations.

Mehleng yeno, batho ba bantĂ…Â¡i ba bagolo ba rata go tĂ…Â¡ea diswantĂ…Â¡ho e le gore ba gopole ponagalo e botse yeo e ilego ya ba kgahliĂ…Â¡a.
Nowadays, many adults prefer to take a photo in order to recall a beautiful sight that impressed them.
 In modern times, many adults like to take pictures to recall the beautiful appearance that impressed them.

Di akaretĂ…Â¡a kgoeletĂ…Â¡o ya gore: "Go na le khutĂ…Â¡o le polokego " le go fediĂ…Â¡wa ga bodumedi bja maaka.
These include the cry of "Peace and security! " and the destruction of false religion.
 They include the cry: "There is peace and security " and the destruction of false religion.

Moya wa gagwe o ba tutueletĂ…Â¡a go thekga e sego feela ka dilo tĂ…Â¡e di bonagalago, eupja gape le go gafa nako ya bona le matla ka pelo ka moka.
His spirit moves them not only to provide material support but also to give wholeheartedly of their time and energy.
 His spirit moves them to support not only materially but also wholeheartedly sacrifice their time and energy.

Ke gabohlokwa gore re tĂ…Â¡wele pele re ela hloko dipolelelo - pele tĂ…Â¡a Modimo ge re dutĂ…Â¡e re dira gore seetĂ…Â¡a sa rena se phadime.
It is vital that we keep on paying attention to divine predictions while we let our light shine.
 It is vital that we keep paying attention to God's predictions as we let our light shine.

Go sa Ă…Â¡etĂ…Â¡we mehola ya go bala, go swanetĂ…Â¡e go amogelwa gore thelebiĂ…Â¡ene le yona e na le mehola ya yona.
Despite the benefits of reading, it must be admitted that television has its merits too.
 Despite the benefits of reading, television should be accepted as having its benefits too.

Le ge a be a tseba gore lesea leo e be e le Moheberu, le gore le be le swanetĂ…Â¡e go bolawa, o ile " a le Ă…Â¡okela ' gomme a le tĂ…Â¡ea gore a yo le godiĂ…Â¡a e le ngwana wa gagwe. - Ek.
Though she realized that the infant she had found was a child of the Hebrews and should not be kept alive, "she felt compassion for him " and decided to raise the child as her own. - Ex.
 Although she knew that the baby was Hebrew, and she was to be killed, she "was moved with pity " and took it to raise it as her baby. - Ex.

[ SeswantĂ…Â¡ho go letlakala 29]
[ Picture on page 29]
 [ Picture on page 29]

Beibele e bolela ka dika tĂ…Â¡e itĂ…Â¡ego tĂ…Â¡eo bagolo ba Bakriste ba swanetĂ…Â¡ego go ba le tĂ…Â¡ona.
The Bible describes certain qualifications for Christian elders.
 The Bible mentions certain qualities that Christian elders need to have.

LentĂ…Â¡u la Modimo le lemoĂ…Â¡a ka gore: "O se kĂƒÂª wa ithsema yo bohlale. "
God's Word warns: "Do not become wise in your own eyes. "
 God's Word warns: "Do not become wise in your own eyes. "

Hlalosa kamoo Hesekia a godiĂ…Â¡itĂ…Â¡wego ka gona.
Describe Hezekiah's background.
 Explain how Hezekiah was brought up.

Na o a dumela gore Jehofa o kweĂ…Â¡iĂ…Â¡a maemo a gago?
Do you believe that Jehovah understands your circumstances?
 Do you believe that Jehovah understands your situation?

Ka kgonthe go bjalo!
Most assuredly!
 Certainly!

Na ga go kaone gore ba ithute ka tsela e nepagetĂ…Â¡ego le yeo e hlomphegago go batswadi bao ba itshwerego gabotse le bao ba nago le lerato go e na le go ithuta go motho o mongwe mokgotheng goba ka jarateng ya sekolo goba go batho ba bagolo bao ba Ă…Â¡ilafetĂ…Â¡ego menaganong?
Is it not far better for them to learn in a correct and dignified manner from moral and loving parents than from someone in the street or the schoolyard or from dirty - minded adults?
 Is it not better for them to learn in a positive and respectful way from well - behaved and loving parents than to learn from someone else in a stable or in a school yard or from spiritually dirty adults?

Ka baka la'ng?
Why?
 Why?

Ge Ngwana yo a se Nago Boikarabelo a KgaotĂ…Â¡we
When a Minor Is Disfellowshipped
 When a Child Who Does Not Care

Ba ile ba utolla go ba gona ga Jesu go mmolai yo wa lehufa le yo matla, ba ba ba mo nea lebaka le tiilego la gore a hloye ngwana yoo e bego e tlo ba "kgoĂ…Â¡i ya Bajuda. "
They revealed Jesus ' existence to that jealous and powerful murderer and even gave him strong reason for hating the child who was to become "king of the Jews. "
 They revealed Jesus ' presence to this jealous and powerful murderer, even giving him strong reason to hate a child who would become "king of the Jews. "

Ke ile ka araba ka gore: "Ngwanabo rena Robert, ke na le nywaga e 24 feela, gomme ga ke na phihlelo. "
" But Bob, " I replied, "I'm only 24 years old, and I don't have the experience. "
 " Brother Robert, I am only 24 years old, and I am inexperienced, " I replied.

Ka go hloka mafulo ka ge ditĂ…Â¡ie di be di jele dimela tĂ…Â¡a naga, dikgomo di be di lelera ka kgakanego gomme mehlape ya dinku e ile ya loba.
Lacking pasturage because the locusts had stripped the land of vegetation, cattle wandered about in confusion and droves of sheep perished.
 Lacking pasture, since locusts had eaten wild plants, cattle would wander in confusion, and sheep flocks lost.

Go 1 Bakorinthe kgaolo 14, Paulo o ahla - ahlile ditaba tĂ…Â¡eo di tswalanago le dipokano tĂ…Â¡a phuthego ya Bokriste.
In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, Paul discussed matters relating to meetings of the Christian congregation.
 In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, Paul discussed matters related to gatherings of the Christian congregation.

Ke modiro ofe woo o re thuĂ…Â¡ago go hlaola Mesia?
What commission helps to identify the Messiah?
 What work helps us to identify the Messiah?

Ka ge o le Mokriste yo a kolobeditĂ…Â¡wego, tswalano ya gago le Jehofa ga e swane le ntlo yeo batswadi ba gago ba ka go Ă…Â¡ielago yona gore e be bohwa bja gago.
As a baptized Christian, your relationship with Jehovah is not a " family plan, ' such as some people have for cellular telephone service.
 As a baptized Christian, your relationship with Jehovah is not like a house that your parents may fear for you to become your inheritance.

Ka morago ga gore Jehofa a le fediĂ…Â¡e, batho ka moka le barongwa ba tla kgotsofatĂ…Â¡wa ke gore toka e dirilwe.
After it is carried out, every thinking creature in the universe will heartily agree that justice was done.
 After Jehovah destroys it, all humans and angels will be satisfied that justice has been done.

Ka gona, ge a gatelela tutuetĂ…Â¡o yeo LentĂ…Â¡u la Modimo le nago le yona bakeng sa go dira botse, mopsalme o ile a oketĂ…Â¡a ka gore: "Pelong ya - ka ke boloka thutĂƒÂ´ ya xaxo, xore ke se dirĂƒÂª se O se semaxo sebe. "
Then, underscoring what a powerful force for good God's Word is, the psalmist added: "In my heart I have treasured up your saying, in order that I may not sin against you. "
 Thus, highlighting the influence that God's Word has on doing good, the psalmist added: "In my heart I have observed your law, that I may not sin against you. "

Ka ngwaga wa 1957, ge ke be ke sa dutĂ…Â¡e ke bula madibogo le Phuthego ya Paddington, ke ile ka kopana le kgaetĂ…Â¡edi yo mobotse wa mo - SepaniĂ…Â¡i yo a bitĂ…Â¡wago Rafaela.
In the year 1957, while still pioneering with the Paddington Congregation, I met a lovely Spanish sister named Rafaela.
 In the year 1957, while pioneering with the Peldton Congregation, I met a beautiful Spanish sister named joy.

Ge e le gabotse, o ka hwetĂ…Â¡a o na le tĂ…Â¡helete e ntĂ…Â¡i bakeng sa go kgona go fihlelela dinyakwa tĂ…Â¡a lapa la gago.
In turn, you may well find that you actually have more money on hand to meet the needs of your family.
 In fact, you may find that you have more money to meet your family's needs.

Direto tĂ…Â¡a bodumedi di tĂ…Â¡wa go molwa - le - Kriste.
Religious titles are from the antichrist.
 Religious titles originate from the antichrist.

TĂ…Â¡e dingwe di re MmuĂ…Â¡o o "gare ga lena " goba" magareng ga lena. "
Some say that the Kingdom is "among you " or" in the midst of you. "
 Others say that the Kingdom is "in your midst " or" between you. "

Ka mohlala, monna yo mongwe wa kua Thailand o ile a kgongwa pelo ke lerato leo a le bonego gare ga bana babo rena kopanong ya selete.
A man in Thailand, for example, was touched by the love he saw among the brothers at a regional convention.
 For example, a man in Thailand was deeply moved by the love he saw among the brothers at a district convention.

Phethagalo ya morero woo e ile ya emiĂ…Â¡wa bakeng sa go dumelela Sathane gore a leke go hlatsela tlhohlo ya gagwe ya gore o be a ka dira gore batho ka moka ba furalele Jehofa Modimo.
Fulfillment of that purpose has been held in abeyance to let Satan attempt to prove his challenge that he could turn all people away from Jehovah God.
 The fulfillment of that purpose was stopped to allow Satan to try to prove his challenge that he could turn everyone away from Jehovah God.

Re holega bjang ge re dira diphetho tĂ…Â¡eo di thabiĂ…Â¡ago Jehofa?
How do we benefit from making decisions that please Jehovah?
 How do we benefit from making decisions that please Jehovah?

Pono ya gago ke efe?
What is your opinion?
 What is your view?

Ofisi ya lekala e a ngwala:
The branch office writes:
 The branch office writes:

Ka 1940 batho ba mmalwa ba phuthegong ya rena ba ile ba hira pese go ya kopanong yeo e bego e swaretĂ…Â¡we kua Detroit, Michigan.
In 1940 several in our congregation rented a bus and traveled to the convention held in Detroit, Michigan.
 In 1940 a number of people in our congregation rented a bus to attend a convention held in reality, Michigan.

O ile a hwa nywaga e 1 545 ka morago ga ge monyanya wa Paseka o hlomilwe.
He died 1,545 years after the first Passover meal was celebrated.
 He died 1,545 years after the Passover celebration was instituted.

Na taba ya gore Beibele e bea ditaba tĂ…Â¡e bjalo ka tsela e nepagetĂ…Â¡ego ga e go makatĂ…Â¡e - kudu - kudu ge o lemoga maaka ao a kwagalago eka ke thereĂ…Â¡o a mehleng ya ge Beibele e be e ngwalwa?
Does it not strike you as amazing that the Bible makes such accurate statements - even in the face of the erroneous yet seemingly commonsense perceptions of the day?
 Does not the fact that the Bible puts such matters in the right way surprise you - especially when you realize what sounds like the truth of when the Bible was written?

Seo e be e se se se sa tlwaelegago mehleng yeo.
That was not uncommon at that time.
 That was not unusual in those days.

Go ya ka sehlogo sa USA Today, "ke letĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i la maikhutĂ…Â¡o la bodumedi bakeng sa bao ba lego ka tlase ga lefase, barapedi ba Sathane ba neela dihlabelo gomme baloi ba bina monyanya ka setu ka medikologo ya dithapelo goba dijo tĂ…Â¡e di neelwago bahu. "
" It's a religious holiday for the underworld, with satanists performing sacrifices and witches quietly celebrating with prayer circles or meals for the dead, " according to a USA Today article.
 According to the article "it is a religious holiday for those under the world, Satan's worshipers offer sacrifices, and witches observe the celebration quietly by means of prayers or food offered to the dead. "

Barutwana ba Beibele ba ile ba katoloĂ…Â¡a modiro wa bona ka bjako, ba bopa dihlopha tĂ…Â¡a go ithuta Beibele (tĂ…Â¡eo ka morago di ilego tĂ…Â¡a bitĂ…Â¡wa diphuthego) nageng ka moka ya United States.
The Bible Students rapidly extended their activity, forming Bible classes (later called congregations) throughout the United States.
 The Bible Students quickly expanded their activity, forming Bible study groups (later called congregations) throughout the United States.

Go swana mo gongwe go ka lemogwa magareng ga borapedi bja ba - Isiraele bao ba bego ba rapela namane le bjo bo hwetĂ…Â¡wago Bojakaneng.
Other parallels can be noted between worship carried on by the calf - worshiping Israelites and that found in Christendom.
 The similarities may be noted between the worship of Israelites who worshiped the calf and that found in Christendom.

Seo se lego bohlokwa ke gore gona bjale ke nako ya go retologela go Modimo le LentĂ…Â¡ung la gagwe gore o iponele ka noĂ…Â¡i seo e lego "thatĂƒÂ´ ya Modimo, e lexo se botse le se se kxahliĂ…Â¡axo, se e lexo sa botlalĂƒÂ´. "
What is significant is that now is the time to turn to God and to his Word to prove for yourself what is "the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. "
 What is important is that now is the time to turn to God and his Word to see for yourself what is "God's will, which is good and acceptable and perfect. "

Ka morago ga matĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i a 14 re le lewatleng, re ile ra goroga boemakepeng bja Italy bja Genoa.
After 14 days at sea, we docked at the Italian port of Genoa.
 After 14 days at sea, we arrived at Italy's port of significance.

Al o ile a hudugela Amerika Borwa le mosadi wa gagwe, bana ba babedi le mmagwe.
Al moved to South America with his wife, two children, and mother.
 Al moved to South America with his wife, two children, and his mother.

Lebelela mangwalo.
PTOLEMY c.
 Look up the scriptures.

(a) Motho o ikgafa bjang?
Look up the scriptures.
 (a) How does one make sacrifices?

Go hlagolela lerato le le sa kwanantĂ…Â¡hego la go rata Modimo le go bontĂ…Â¡ha moya wa boikgafo go tla thuĂ…Â¡a go re Ă…Â¡ireletĂ…Â¡a gore re se ineele dikganyogong tĂ…Â¡a boithati le "xo xomĂƒÂªla moraxo le xo y'o lahlwa. " - Ba - Hebere 10: 39.
(a) How does a person disown himself?
 Cultivating loyal love for God and displaying a spirit of self - sacrifice will help protect us from giving in to selfish desires and "from going away to destruction. " - Hebrews 10: 39.

Seo Jehofa a Bego a se Nyaka Nakong e Fetilego
Cultivating loyal love for God and manifesting a self - sacrificing spirit will help protect us from succumbing to selfish desires and " shrinking back to destruction. ' - Hebrews 10: 39.
 What Jehovah Needed in the Past

Go feta moo, seporo se be se putla dikhilomithara tĂ…Â¡e 500 tĂ…Â¡a molala o nago le dihlare wa dithokgwa tĂ…Â¡eo di bofaganego kudu tĂ…Â¡eo di nago le mehlape ya ditau le tĂ…Â¡e tletĂ…Â¡ego ka dintĂ…Â¡hi - tsetse le menang.
What Jehovah Required in the Past
 Furthermore, the railway traveled 300 miles [,500 km] of high - forest plain with lions ' flocks full of flies and mosquitoes.

Dihlatse tĂ…Â¡a Jehofa di tla thabela go go thuĂ…Â¡a.
Beyond, the railway would pass through 300 miles [500 km] of savanna and scrub that teemed with lions and swarmed with tsetse flies and mosquitoes.
 Jehovah's Witnesses will be happy to help you.

Anke re kgonthiĂ…Â¡egeng gore re phema phoĂ…Â¡o ye e kotsi.
Jehovah's Witnesses would be happy to assist you.
 Let us be sure that we avoid this dangerous mistake.

Ge mona o laola bophelo bja gago, o thoma go ikgopola kudu e bile ga o nagane gabotse. "
Let us be sure to avoid that fatal error.
 When envy controls your life, you begin to think too much of yourself and you don't think clearly. "

Se se bontĂ…Â¡ha gore re na le tumelo ya gore Jehofa o na le bokgoni bja go hlokomela dinyakwa tĂ…Â¡a rena letĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i le letĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i.
" When envy takes control of your life, you become self - centered and cannot think clearly. "
 This shows that we have faith that Jehovah has the ability to care for our needs daily.

GaeĂ…Â¡ita le banenyana ba a mpota.
This indicates that we have faith in Jehovah's ability to care for our needs on a daily basis.
 Even girls are angry with each other.

Luka - ModiriĂ…Â¡ani yo a Rategago, 11 / 15
Even the girls confide in me.
 11 / 1

Re be re na le dilo tĂ…Â¡e di bonagalago tĂ…Â¡e dinyenyane, eupĂ…Â¡a Jehofa o ile a re hlokomela gabotse mo e lego gore ka 1934 ke ile ka kgona go ba gona kopanong kua Switzerland.
We had little materially, but Jehovah provided for us so well that in 1934, I was able to attend a convention in Switzerland.
 We had little materially, but Jehovah cared so well for us that in 1934, I was able to attend an assembly in Switzerland.

Ă¢â‚¬Â¢ Ke bjang re ka itlhatselago re le bao ba botegago
Ă¢â‚¬Â¢ How can we prove faithful
 Ă¢â‚¬Â¢ How can we prove ourselves trustworthy

Nisani 15 e be e thoma ge letĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i le diketĂ…Â¡e, e lego se se bolelago gore Sabatha ya beke le beke (Mokibelo) ngwageng woo e bile ka letĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i letee le letĂ…Â¡atĂ…Â¡i la pele la Monyanya wa Dinkgwa tĂ…Â¡e di sa Omelwago, leo ka mehla le bego le eba ka Sabatha.
At sundown, Nisan 15 began, meaning that the regular weekly Sabbath (Saturday) that year coincided with the first day of the Festival of Unfermented Cakes, which was always a sabbath.
 Nisan 15 began at sunset, meaning that the weekly Sabbath (Mephor) that year was the first day of the Festival of Unfermented loaves, which was always on the Sabbath.

EupĂ…Â¡a ge sehlopha sa babulamadibogo se tlogile gomme se ile toropong e latelago, ke ile ka ikwa ke le nnoĂ…Â¡i go feta le ge e le neng pele.
But when the pioneer group left and moved on to the next town, I felt more alone than ever.
 But when a group of pioneers left and went to the next town, I felt more alone than ever before.

GaeĂ…Â¡ita le bao e lego kgale ba le lenyalong ba ka tiiĂ…Â¡a ditlemo tĂ…Â¡a bona tĂ…Â¡a lenyalo
Even those long married can strengthen their marriage bonds
 Even longtime married ones can strengthen their marital bonds

(Bakeng sa mongwalo o beakantĂ…Â¡wego ka mokgwa wa kgatiĂ…Â¡o, bona kgatiĂ…Â¡o ka boyona)
(For fully formatted text, see publication)
 (For fully formatted text, see publication)

Floriano o hlankela ka lethabo e le mohlanka wa bodiredi phuthegong ya gabo ya Dihlatse tĂ…Â¡a Jehofa, gomme Florindo o hlankela e le mogolo le moebangedi wa nako e tletĂ…Â¡ego.
Floriano happily serves as a ministerial servant in the local congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses, and Florindo serves as an elder and full - time evangelizer.
 She happily serves as a ministerial servant in her congregation of Jehovah's Witnesses, and she serves as an elder and a full - time evangelizer.

O tla hola setho se sengwe le se sengwe sa lapa bjang?
What benefits could it bring to each family member?
 How will you benefit each family member?